README.md, before:

# 📸 Azer Image Processor

**Created by Pratya Amrit**

A professional image processing application built with C# and WPF featuring advanced editing capabilities, camera capture, and comprehensive undo/redo functionality.

---

## 👨‍💻 **About the Creator**

**Pratya Amrit** - Software Developer & Image Processing Enthusiast

This project showcases advanced C# programming, sophisticated image processing algorithms, and modern UI design principles. Built with passion for creating professional-grade desktop applications.

---

## 🌟 **Features**

### 🎨 **Image Processing**
- **Load Images**: Support for JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF formats
- **Camera Capture**: Live camera preview and photo capture
- **Real-time Adjustments**: Brightness, Contrast, Saturation, Blur
- **Filters & Effects**: Grayscale, Sepia, Invert Colors, Edge Detection
- **Zoom Controls**: Zoom in/out and fit to window

### 🔄 **Advanced History Management**
- **Undo/Redo**: Complete editing history with 20-state memory
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Ctrl+Z (Undo), Ctrl+Y (Redo)
- **Visual History**: Click any history item to jump to that state
- **State Preservation**: Remembers exact slider values for each edit

### 💾 **File Operations**
- **Save Images**: Export in PNG, JPG, or BMP formats
- **Image Information**: Display size, format, and file size
- **Processing History**: Track all applied effects with timestamps

### ⚡ **Performance Optimizations**
- **10-100x faster processing** compared to standard algorithms
- **Smart preview system** for real-time adjustments
- **Memory optimization** with 60% less resource usage
- **Async processing** keeps UI responsive

---

## 🏆 **Technical Achievements**

✅ **Professional-grade image editor**  
✅ **Real-time processing capabilities**  
✅ **Advanced undo/redo system**  
✅ **Camera integration**  
✅ **10-100x performance improvements**  
✅ **Modern, responsive UI**  
✅ **Comprehensive error handling**  
✅ **Memory-efficient operations**  
✅ **Extensible architecture**  
✅ **Production-ready code quality**  

---

## 🚀 **System Requirements**

- **Operating System**: Windows 10 or later
- **.NET Runtime**: .NET 6.0 or later
- **Camera**: Optional (for capture functionality)
- **Memory**: 4GB RAM recommended
- **Storage**: 100MB free space

---

## 📊 **Performance Metrics**

| Operation | Before Optimization | After Optimization | Improvement |
|-----------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| Brightness/Contrast | 2-5 seconds | 50-200ms | **10-25x faster** |
| Grayscale | 1-3 seconds | 10-50ms | **100x faster** |
| Edge Detection | 5-15 seconds | 200-500ms | **25-30x faster** |
| Memory Usage | High | 60% reduction | **Major improvement** |

---

## 🛠️ **Installation & Setup**

### **Method 1: Using Visual Studio (Recommended)**

1. **Install Visual Studio 2022**
   - Download from: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
   - Select "ASP.NET and web development" and ".NET desktop development" workloads

2. **Create New Project**
   - Open Visual Studio
   - File → New → Project
   - Select "WPF App (.NET)" template
   - Name: "ImageProcessor"
   - Framework: .NET 6.0

3. **Replace Generated Files**
   - Replace all generated files with the provided code
   - Ensure all files are in the correct structure

4. **Install NuGet Packages**
   - Right-click project → Manage NuGet Packages
   - Install the required packages (they should auto-install from .csproj)

5. **Build and Run**
   - Press F5 or click "Start Debugging"

---

## 🎯 **Key Technologies Used**

- **Framework:** .NET 6.0 with WPF
- **Language:** C# 10.0
- **UI Framework:** WPF with XAML
- **Image Processing:** System.Drawing + Custom algorithms
- **Camera Integration:** AForge.NET library
- **Threading:** Task-based async/await patterns

---

## 📁 **Project Structure**

\`\`\`
ImageProcessor/
- ├── ImageProcessor.csproj          # Project configuration
-├── App.xaml                       # Application definition
-├── App.xaml.cs                    # Application code-behind
-├── MainWindow.xaml                # Main UI layout
-├── MainWindow.xaml.cs             # Main window logic
-├── CameraWindow.xaml              # Camera capture UI
-├── CameraWindow.xaml.cs           # Camera capture logic
-├── AboutWindow.xaml               # About dialog UI
-├── AboutWindow.xaml.cs            # About dialog logic
-├── FastImageProcessor.cs          # High-performance algorithms
-├── OptimizedImageHistoryManager.cs # Undo/redo system
-└── README.md                      # This file
\`\`\`

---

## 🎨 **Usage Guide**

### **Getting Started**
1. **Launch Application**: Run the executable or press F5 in Visual Studio
2. **Load Image**: Click "📁 Load Image" or use camera capture
3. **Apply Effects**: Use sliders and filter buttons
4. **Save Result**: Click "💾 Save Image" when satisfied

### **Keyboard Shortcuts**
- **Ctrl+Z**: Undo last action
- **Ctrl+Y**: Redo last undone action
- **Ctrl+Shift+Z**: Alternative redo shortcut

### **Camera Usage**
1. Click "📷 Capture Image"
2. Select camera from dropdown
3. Click "📹 Start Camera"
4. Click "📸 Capture" when ready
5. Image automatically loads into editor

---

## 🔧 **Advanced Features**

### **Smart History Navigation**
- Click any history item to jump to that state
- Visual indicators show current position
- Automatic state validation and recovery

### **Real-time Preview**
- Instant visual feedback on all adjustments
- Debounced processing prevents lag
- Smooth, responsive user experience

### **Memory Management**
- Compressed history storage (JPEG + GZip)
- Automatic cleanup of old states
- Resource disposal tracking

---

## 🎓 **Learning Outcomes**

This project demonstrates mastery of:

1. **Advanced C# Programming**
   - Async/await patterns
   - Event-driven architecture
   - Resource management
   - Exception handling

2. **WPF Application Development**
   - XAML layout design
   - Data binding
   - Custom styling
   - User experience design

3. **Image Processing Algorithms**
   - ColorMatrix operations
   - Convolution techniques
   - Mathematical transformations
   - Performance optimization

4. **Software Architecture**
   - Separation of concerns
   - Modular design
   - Error handling strategies
   - Memory management

---

## 📞 **Contact**

**Pratya Amrit**  
Software Developer & Image Processing Enthusiast

*This project represents a complete, professional-grade desktop application showcasing advanced development skills and modern software engineering practices.*

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is created by **Pratya Amrit** for educational and portfolio purposes. Feel free to study the code and learn from the implementation techniques used.

---

**© 2024 Pratya Amrit. All rights reserved.**

Commit message:

Revise project structure in README.md
Updated project structure section to reflect new organization and added notes for clarity.

README.md, after:

# 📸 Azer Image Processor

**Created by Pratya Amrit**

A professional image processing application built with C# and WPF featuring advanced editing capabilities, camera capture, and comprehensive undo/redo functionality.

---

## 👨‍💻 **About the Creator**

**Pratya Amrit** - Software Developer & Image Processing Enthusiast

This project showcases advanced C# programming, sophisticated image processing algorithms, and modern UI design principles. Built with passion for creating professional-grade desktop applications.

---

## 🌟 **Features**

### 🎨 **Image Processing**
- **Load Images**: Support for JPG, PNG, BMP, GIF formats
- **Camera Capture**: Live camera preview and photo capture
- **Real-time Adjustments**: Brightness, Contrast, Saturation, Blur
- **Filters & Effects**: Grayscale, Sepia, Invert Colors, Edge Detection
- **Zoom Controls**: Zoom in/out and fit to window

### 🔄 **Advanced History Management**
- **Undo/Redo**: Complete editing history with 20-state memory
- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Ctrl+Z (Undo), Ctrl+Y (Redo)
- **Visual History**: Click any history item to jump to that state
- **State Preservation**: Remembers exact slider values for each edit

### 💾 **File Operations**
- **Save Images**: Export in PNG, JPG, or BMP formats
- **Image Information**: Display size, format, and file size
- **Processing History**: Track all applied effects with timestamps

### ⚡ **Performance Optimizations**
- **10-100x faster processing** compared to standard algorithms
- **Smart preview system** for real-time adjustments
- **Memory optimization** with 60% less resource usage
- **Async processing** keeps UI responsive

---

## 🏆 **Technical Achievements**

✅ **Professional-grade image editor**  
✅ **Real-time processing capabilities**  
✅ **Advanced undo/redo system**  
✅ **Camera integration**  
✅ **10-100x performance improvements**  
✅ **Modern, responsive UI**  
✅ **Comprehensive error handling**  
✅ **Memory-efficient operations**  
✅ **Extensible architecture**  
✅ **Production-ready code quality**  

---

## 🚀 **System Requirements**

- **Operating System**: Windows 10 or later
- **.NET Runtime**: .NET 6.0 or later
- **Camera**: Optional (for capture functionality)
- **Memory**: 4GB RAM recommended
- **Storage**: 100MB free space

---

## 📊 **Performance Metrics**

| Operation | Before Optimization | After Optimization | Improvement |
|-----------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| Brightness/Contrast | 2-5 seconds | 50-200ms | **10-25x faster** |
| Grayscale | 1-3 seconds | 10-50ms | **100x faster** |
| Edge Detection | 5-15 seconds | 200-500ms | **25-30x faster** |
| Memory Usage | High | 60% reduction | **Major improvement** |

---

## 🛠️ **Installation & Setup**

### **Method 1: Using Visual Studio (Recommended)**

1. **Install Visual Studio 2022**
   - Download from: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
   - Select "ASP.NET and web development" and ".NET desktop development" workloads

2. **Create New Project**
   - Open Visual Studio
   - File → New → Project
   - Select "WPF App (.NET)" template
   - Name: "ImageProcessor"
   - Framework: .NET 6.0

3. **Replace Generated Files**
   - Replace all generated files with the provided code
   - Ensure all files are in the correct structure

4. **Install NuGet Packages**
   - Right-click project → Manage NuGet Packages
   - Install the required packages (they should auto-install from .csproj)

5. **Build and Run**
   - Press F5 or click "Start Debugging"

---

## 🎯 **Key Technologies Used**

- **Framework:** .NET 6.0 with WPF
- **Language:** C# 10.0
- **UI Framework:** WPF with XAML
- **Image Processing:** System.Drawing + Custom algorithms
- **Camera Integration:** AForge.NET library
- **Threading:** Task-based async/await patterns

---

## 📁 **Project Structure**

```text
AZER-image-processor/                 # Repository root
├── src/                              # WPF project source files
│   ├── AZER.ImageProcessor.csproj    # Project file (may be named differently)
│   ├── App.xaml
│   ├── App.xaml.cs
│   ├── MainWindow.xaml
│   ├── MainWindow.xaml.cs
│   ├── CameraWindow.xaml
│   ├── CameraWindow.xaml.cs
│   ├── AboutWindow.xaml
│   ├── AboutWindow.xaml.cs
│   ├── FastImageProcessor.cs
│   ├── OptimizedImageHistoryManager.cs
│   └── ... (other .cs / .xaml files)
├── assets/                            # Images, icons, sample photos used by the app
│   └── samples/                       # example images for testing
├── libs/                              # Third-party libraries (e.g. AForge binaries or .dlls)
├── tests/                             # Unit / integration tests (if present)
├── docs/                              # Design notes, architecture diagrams, and docs
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

Notes:
- I grouped all project source files under src/ to make it clear which files belong to the compilable WPF project. If your repository already places the .csproj and source files in the repository root (no src/ folder), you can revert to the simpler flat layout while keeping the same file names.
- libs/ is suggested for any bundled third-party binaries; prefer NuGet packages when possible.
- assets/ holds icons, sample images, and other static assets used by the app or README.
- tests/ and docs/ are optional but recommended for larger projects.

---

## 🎨 **Usage Guide**

### **Getting Started**
1. **Launch Application**: Run the executable or press F5 in Visual Studio
2. **Load Image**: Click "📁 Load Image" or use camera capture
3. **Apply Effects**: Use sliders and filter buttons
4. **Save Result**: Click "💾 Save Image" when satisfied

### **Keyboard Shortcuts**
- **Ctrl+Z**: Undo last action
- **Ctrl+Y**: Redo last undone action
- **Ctrl+Shift+Z**: Alternative redo shortcut

### **Camera Usage**
1. Click "📷 Capture Image"
2. Select camera from dropdown
3. Click "📹 Start Camera"
4. Click "📸 Capture" when ready
5. Image automatically loads into editor

---

## 🔧 **Advanced Features**

### **Smart History Navigation**
- Click any history item to jump to that state
- Visual indicators show current position
- Automatic state validation and recovery

### **Real-time Preview**
- Instant visual feedback on all adjustments
- Debounced processing prevents lag
- Smooth, responsive user experience

### **Memory Management**
- Compressed history storage (JPEG + GZip)
- Automatic cleanup of old states
- Resource disposal tracking

---

## 🎓 **Learning Outcomes**

This project demonstrates mastery of:

1. **Advanced C# Programming**
   - Async/await patterns
   - Event-driven architecture
   - Resource management
   - Exception handling

2. **WPF Application Development**
   - XAML layout design
   - Data binding
   - Custom styling
   - User experience design

3. **Image Processing Algorithms**
   - ColorMatrix operations
   - Convolution techniques
   - Mathematical transformations
   - Performance optimization

4. **Software Architecture**
   - Separation of concerns
   - Modular design
   - Error handling strategies
   - Memory management

---

## 📞 **Contact**

**Pratya Amrit**  
Software Developer & Image Processing Enthusiast

*This project represents a complete, professional-grade desktop application showcasing advanced development skills and modern software engineering practices.*

---

## 📄 **License**

This project is created by **Pratya Amrit** for educational and portfolio purposes. Feel free to study the code and learn from the implementation techniques used.

---

**© 2024 Pratya Amrit. All rights reserved.**
